What is truth? How do I define it for myself?
To me, truth is the ability to recount an occurence through an unbiased lens. It requires absolute neutrality and the consideration of no past personal experiences, but rather the telling of what objectively happened. It's easy to slip up, even if by accident, since humans naturally want to make life easier, and that can sometimes come about through lying. Although lying is not an ideal coping mechanism nor a durable method of going about life, it can genuinely be habit for some people (pathological). In this case, those people need to recognize the deep-rooted reason for which they believe the truth is unworthy, boring, or just not worth telling. I'm not too sure how pathological liars develop this habit, but their case reveals the importance of valuing truth, since without truth, one can forget their purpose and life's mission. If a person is constantly lying, they don't get to live in the moment and understand the reasons for each occurence in their life. I am a firm believer that everything that happens to someone happened for a reason and should never be the subject of shame. This is a part of truth. Regarding things that are not relevant to a person, those things should still not be lied about. Like I previously stated, lies are the easy way out to prevent pain, mental or physical. It's all around better to face one's truth, as it will inevitably return to onself. Even if a person lies to get out of something and they are never "exposed", the truth will always haunt them. For myself, truth is telling things regardless of the consequences, since what is true is true and will almost always resurface. 
